# 2023-11-25    16:58
=====================

* 233 - Volumes
---------------
# https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/

On-disk files in a container are ephemeral. Container state is not saved so all of the files that were created or modified during the lifetime of the container are lost. 
Also during a crash, kubelet restarts the container with a clean state.
Another problem occurs when multiple containers are running in a Pod and need to share files. 
The Kubernetes *volume abstraction* solves all of these problems.

Kubernetes supports many types of volumes. A Pod can use any number of volume types simultaneously. *Ephemeral* volume types have a lifetime of a pod, but *persistent* volumes exist beyond the lifetime of a pod. 

At its core, a *volume is a directory*, possibly with some data in it, which is accessible to the containers in a pod.
Volumes mount at the specified paths within the image.
A volume cannot contain a hard link to anything in a different volume.

*Types of volumes*
------------------
- configMap
- downwardAPI
- emptyDir
- iscsi
- local
- nfs - allows an existing NFS (Network File System) share to be mounted into a Pod
- persistentVolumeClaim - is used to mount a PersistentVolume into a Pod
- projected - maps several existing volume sources into the same directory
- secret - is used to pass sensitive information, such as passwords, to Pods
... and many-many others

-------
    $ vim 233-hostpath.yml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: dbpod
spec:
  containers:
  - image: mysql:5.7
    name: az-mysql
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /var/lib/mysql
      name: dbvol
  volumes:
  - name: dbvol
    hostPath:
      # directory location on host
      path: /data
      # this field is optional
      type: DirectoryOrCreate

-------

    $ kubectl apply -f 233-hostpath.yml
pod/dbpod created
    $ kubectl describe pod dbpod
...
Events:
  Type    Reason     Age   From               Message
  ----    ------     ----  ----               -------
  Normal  Scheduled  3s    default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/dbpod to docker-desktop
  Normal  Pulling    2s    kubelet            Pulling image "mysql:5.7"
...

    $ kubectl delete -f 233-hostpath.yml