# 2023-11-24    12:17
=====================


* 227 - Pods
------------
To run your apps isolated
A *Pod* is a basic execution unit of a Kubernetes-based application - the smallest and simplest unit in the Kubernetes object model that you create or deploy. A *Pod* represents process running on your *Cluster*.

Pods that run a single container
    - The "one-container-per-Pod" model is the most common Kubernetes use case.
    - Pod is as a wrapper around a single container
    - Kubernetes manages thq Pods rather than the containers directly.

MultiContainer Pods
    - Exist for tightly coupled containers and need to share resources.
    - One is 'Main container' container is a Sidecar or an Init container. 
    - Each MultiContainer Pod is meant to run a single instance of a given application.
    - You should use multiple Pods to scale horisontally. So with MultiContainer pods it is hard to scale.

    $ kubectl create -f pod-setup.yml
pod/webapp-pod created
    $ kubectl get pod
...
    $ kubectl describe pod webapp-pod
...

# You shold knot thet Pods are editable, but not everything in pods is editable.
    $ kubectl get pod webapp-pod -o yaml > webpod-definition.yaml
    $ kubectl edit pod webapp-pod
    $ kubectl get node ip-172-20-57-212.us-east1.compute.internal -o yaml
...

-------
    $ vim vproapppod.yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: vproapp
  labels:
    app: vproapp
spec:
  containers:
  - name: appcontainer
    image: imranvisualpath/freshtomapp:V7
    ports:
      - name: vproapp-port
        containerPort: 8080

-------

    $ kubectl create -f vproapppod.yaml
    $ kubectl delere -f vproapppod.yaml
