# 2023-10-11    10:39
=====================


* 155 - Build Triggers Intro
----------------------------
Jenkins jobs can  also rxrcute automatically and there are various triggers which you can use.
# Popular Jenkins job triggers:
[a] Git Webhook
    We'll send JSON payload whenever there is a commit in the repo;
[b] Poll SCM
    This is just opposit of Git hook. Jenkins will check for commit in git repository in an interval that you specified;
[c] Scheduled job
    Pretty simple. You mention date and time like an alarm clock in cron job format and Jenkins will make sure your job runs at that particuler time or in some intervats that you specified.
[d] Remote triggers
    This is slightly complicated. You can trigger Jenkins jobs from anywhere - from a script or Ansible playbook or whanever that matter. And there are tokens and secrets and URLs and all multiple things goes into that. So you get an API call which you can use to trigger Jenkins job.
[e] Build after other projects are built
    You just select that after this job is completed, run this particular job.
    If previous job gets completed, then after that your job gets triggered.
[f] Other not so popular triggers.

Now let's see the steps that we're going to take in order to learn all these triggers.
1. Create git repository on GitHub
2. SSH auth - Set up an authentication to your GitHub repo.
3. Create Jenkinsfile in Git repo && commit
4. Create Jenkins job to access Jenkinsfile from Git repo.
5. Test triggers.

Our new repository will be
# https://github.com/Azrubael/230903-javacode

    $ cd ./230903-javacode/
-------
    $ vim Jenkinsfile
pipeline {
    agent any
    stages {
        stage('Build') {
            steps {
                sh 'echo "Build completed."'
            }
        }
    }
}
-------

    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "Step #3. First Jenkinstrigger for lesson 155."
    $ git push origin main
# https://github.com/Azrubael/230903-javacode
# check the new commit
Now let's go to Jenkins and create a job that can fetch this Jenkinsfile and run the job.
    $ cd ./148-jenkins-docker-ci/
    $ vagrant up jvm
# http://192.168.56.11:8080

> Jenkins > Dashboard > New item > { 'name': 'simple_trigger' } >
    Pipeline > OK > Pipeline (in the end of page) >
    *Pipeline script from SCM* > SCM = Git >
    *Repository URL* = https://github.com/Azrubael/230903-javacode >
    Credentials > Add > Jenkins > Domain = Global ... >
    Kind = SSH Username with private key > ID = gitsshkey >
    Username = Azrubael > Private Key = Enter directly >
            -----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
            ...
            -----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
    > Add > Credentials > Azrubael (gitsshkey) > Branch = /main >
    Script Path = 'Jenkinsfile' > Lightweight checkout: *ON* >
    SAVE > BUILD NOW



* 156 - Build Triggers Demo
---------------------------
Let's see our first trigger webhook. We want to run *BUILD NOW* whenever there is a commit in our training repo `230903-javacode`.
It not have to be only a commit but some different event on uor GitHub repo.

1. Copy our Jenkins server URL (pullic, *GLOBAL*)
    http://jenkins.azrubael.online:8080
2. Go to our repo
    https://github.com/Azrubael/230903-javacode
3. GitHub repo > Settings > Webhooks > Add webhook > 
    Payload URL = http://jenkins.azrubael.online:8080/github-webhook/ >
    Content type = application/json >
    Just the push event = *ON* > Active = *ENABLE* >
    ADD WEBHOOK
4. Go to Jenkins *GLOBAL* server
> Jenkins > Dashboard > select existing item { 'name': 'simple_trigger' } >
    Configure > Build triggers >
    GitHub hook trigger for GITScm polling = *ON* > SAVE
5. Go in terminal
    $ cd /mnt/SSDATA/CODE/DevOpsCompl20/230903-javacode/
    $ touch testtriggerfile
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "testtriggerfile"
    $ git push origin main
6. No we made a commit and this should triggered the job.
    *So that was GitHub webhook* 


# Poll SCM is pretty similiar but opposite. In this case GitHub is triggering the job.

7. Remove the checkmark *GitHub hook trigger for GITScm polling*
   (but git webhook isn't necessary)
> Jenkins > Dashboard > select existing item { 'name': 'simple_trigger' } >
    Configure > Build triggers > Poll SCM = *ON*
    GitHub hook trigger for GITScm polling = *OFF* >
    Schedule [in cron format] :
    `3 * * * *` [to run every 3 minutes if there is a commit] >
     SAVE
8. Go in terminal
    $ cd ./230903-javacode/
    $ touch testtriggerfile2
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "testtriggerfile2"
    $ git push origin main
And whenever there is a comment, the GitHub will send a JSON payload which wil trigger your job.


# Scheduled jobs, which is similar to Poss SCM, but it is not going to check your SCM (GitHub or GitLab). It will just run the job at a particular time.

9. Remove the checkmark *Poll SCM*
   (but git webhook isn't necessary)
> Jenkins > Dashboard > select existing item { 'name': 'simple_trigger' } >
    Configure > Build triggers > Poll SCM = *OFF*
    Build periodically = *ON* > 
        Schedule [in cron format] :
    `3 * * * *` [to run every 3 minutes] >
    `30 20 * * 1-5` [to run at 20:30 every workday, i.e. 0=Sunday]
    SAVE


# Remote triggers are slightly comlicated, so you should follow the document.

10. See `156 - Build-Triggers-Remotely.pdf`.
    You can use that URL to run it from the script and it could be Bash, Ansible, Python, Ruby etc. any other programming language. And that trigger your job without authentication.
    
    
# Build after other projects are built
> Jenkins > Dashboard > New item > Free style project>
    { 'name': 'free_trigger' } > OK > Configure >
    Build Steps > Execute shell > Build triggers >
    Build after other project are built > Project to watch >
    { 'name': 'simple_trigger' } > SAVE
That's all.

These were the most popular Jenkins job triggers.